(upbeat music)
- Hey everyone, welcome to this week's episode
of Fish, Dan, and James here.
We're just very excited to let you know
about our guest this week 'cause it's a classic.
- Absolutely, we're most excited 'cause Andy isn't here,
but we are excited about our guest,
who was the incredible, wonderful Sally Phillips.
The great thing about Sally is she came on the show,
she's got nothing to plug.
I mean, you could Google her and find out everything about her,
but she just came on because she loves knowledge.
She loves the research period.
I think she prefers the research part
to actually do the show.
She just goes down all these incredible rabbit holes
and she's just the best person to podcast with.
- I know, she came into the office saying,
I'm so sorry I haven't had any time to do research
for the show, she had more notes than any of us.
She had like 20 pages, sure.
They were in size 25 font, but they were there.
She does her stuff.
- The show is really, really fun.
I'm absolutely certain you're gonna win Choyette.
If you would like to hear more,
then you could go to Patreon.
If you'd like to Patreon.com/nosesingsafish,
you could join one of our tiers
and the middle tier will have an Excel version of this show,
which I can exclusively reveal.
It has an incredible anecdote about Bob Martimer in it
that there was no space for in this edit.
- But also, you can just join our Patreon for free.
And if you do that this week,
you're gonna find a little bonus video.
It is of Sally taking a Bible and predicting our fortunes.
It was nuts.
It's really fun.
You can watch that there now.
So go check that out.
And if you want to follow Sally, she's on Instagram.
So follow @sallysmack.
She's always doing amazing projects.
She's always in brilliant TV shows and brilliant movies.
She's just awesome.
So go say hi there, but enjoy her here now.
Or no such thing as a fish.
Okay, I'm with the episode.
- I'm with the podcast.
(playful music)
- Hello, and welcome to another episode of no such thing
as a fish, a weekly podcast coming to you
from the QI offices in Hobern.
My name is Dan Triber.
I am sitting here with Andrew Hunter Murray,
James Harkin, and Sally Phillips.
And once again, we have gathered around the microphones
with our four favorite facts from the last seven days.
And in no particular order,
here we go, starting with fact number one.
And that is Sally.
- Well, I've been interested in Greenland
for obvious reasons this week,
and I came across a fact that Greenlanders
start their new year countdown,
14,410 seconds before midnight.
(laughing)
- Brilliant.
- Well, you've got to make the time pass somehow.
I imagine it's pretty cold and dark for a long time.
And so that'll be a fun evening's activity.
And that is because they currently are attached
part of the Kingdom of Denmark,
and Denmark celebrates midnight several hours before them.
And so if they attach to the United States,
they would be celebrating midnight at midnight and at 3 a.m.
- Oh, right.
- They have to do Pacific Eastern Central and Hawaii.
- Well, I've looked up Washington.
How long would it be?
- Three hours from Washington.
- It's not a good reason not to do it.
We don't need any more reasons,
but this new year thing is not dissimilar
to what I'm currently doing,
which is the fake new year at 8 p.m. for all the kids.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
- And then you do the 12 p.m.
and it's probably not too dissimilar
at time difference.
- I will say, Sally,
it's quite risky doing a section on Greenland,
because we did a section on Venezuela several weeks ago
with Michael Palin.
And then soon afterwards,
at the unpleasant disaster.
- We're just working our way through all the new states,
aren't we, of America?
(laughing)
- Yeah, I find it really fascinating that he said,
he said, "Yeah, it's about the oil."
But they've got access to the oil
and they're not taking it out.
So we know it isn't about,
if he says it's about the oil, it's not about the oil, right?
So what is it about?
Is it about the fact that everything's gonna melt
in which case it's gonna be a better place to be?
- There's a good theory.
- What's that?
- That it's about the Mercato projection.
Yeah, the problem is,
what's that? - So the Mercato,
if you look at a flat map of the globe,
things that are further from the equator look bigger.
So there's no doubt Greenland is extremely big.
- Oh, that's funny.
- It's extremely big Greenland.
- The biggest island in the world,
if you're not counting Australia.
- No, well, that's not an island.
- Right, yeah, yeah.
- Yeah, that's a continent, that's the tiniest continent.
- So it's the biggest, so Greenland's the biggest island
in the world. - So it's the biggest island.
- Without caveats.
But basically the problem is,
it looks 12 times bigger than it is.
Like really, it looks, yeah, yeah.
And it's all because the Mercato projection
is a very good way of making a 3D object flat,
you know, rendering it in a flat form.
And it's thanks to a Flemish cartographer
called Gerardus Mercato from several centuries ago.
- It looks as big as Africa on a flat map.
It's really not, you know, it is big,
but it's nowhere near as big as it looks.
I mean, it looks almost as big as North America.
So what we need to do is change the map immediately
to make it look a bit more accurate.
- It's bigger than Mexico, so it is big.
- It's big.
- And it means that Denmark is the biggest country
that's wholly in Europe.
So that's always a fun, quick question.
It's like, apart from Russia,
which is partly in Asia,
what's the biggest country in Europe and it's Denmark,
even though it looks small because it has this huge battery.
- That's great, yeah, that's very interesting.
- But hasn't it, it has belonged to America before?
Or?
- Greenland, no.
I thought it was Eric the Red and then--
- Well, he was actually a landic.
So he was expelled from Iceland for manslaughter.
And the idea is that he called it Greenland
to lure people there,
because he thought that if he called it Greenland,
people would want to go there.
- More tourist would come.
Isn't it great that there still exists
on the map of the world, a joke, a prank?
Isn't that great?
- Yeah, well, that's really, that's really, really interesting.
- James, have you been there?
- No, I haven't, I'd love to go one day a bit tight
on the few times, but yeah, it's just tricky to get to
from here, as Nick, 'cause you have to go to Denmark
and then go back over.
- Yes, right.
- I'd love to go over.
It claimed on the internet that in your traditions
coming back, one is to towing your face
when you get your first period.
- Okay.
- Oh, a specific kind of tattoo, or--
- A specific, yeah, dots between the eyes,
that kind of thing, and childbirth, every child you have,
and those traditions are coming back.
And what was the other ingredient?
Oh yeah, washing your hair with urine.
And I obviously was attracted by that fact.
(laughing)
I went after that, and I found that James Cracknell's wife,
Beverly has been online to--
- The roller.
- Beverly Turner.
- Yeah, Beverly Turner.
I've been online going, yeah, I'm doing that.
That's great.
I'm just getting to the show and washing my hair
with a cup full of pee, and lots of people swear by it.
- Is that true?
- Yeah, that's so much so that the Icelandic company,
no, not company, students, Icelandic students,
have made a hard, a bar shampoo out of cow urine.
- Wow.
- So it has ammonia, right, so it could be--
- It's ammonia.
- For sure, it could bleach your hair.
That was going to be my question, though.
Is she doing it with animal or family?
- Her own urine.
- Right.
And so there's quite a lot of people out there doing it,
and I came across the word urine munger, which I was like,
so thrilled to know existed, from Peeps's diary,
where obviously urine was a commodity,
because it was used for tanning animal hides,
but also for bleaching, you know what it was.
- Of course it was, of course it was.
- For you for bleaching clothes,
as they used to put a big bucket outside the textile manufacturer's
house with people to piss in on the way back from the pub,
because it was a fixative for dye.
So if you were making very fancy clothes for queens and stuff,
you would only use newborn baby piss.
- Oh, come on.
- That makes sense.
- This is what the internet says.
Just prove me wrong, guys, prove me wrong.
- I think we have the same sources, 'cause we do the fact
ages ago, remember about how the urine of redheads
would be used in stained glass window,
because it had magical properties,
and it would just last longer.
- Oh really?
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
- When you say we did a fact.
(laughing)
- But newborn babies produce very little.
- I know, well, I imagine that made it all more expensive.
- Exactly.
- It's a client demand.
- That was quite a rabbit hole.
Sally, you have to say it was wonderful.
- There's a thing that they're exporting from Greenland to Dubai.
Yeah, which is ice for their ice cubes, for their cocktails.
So there's a startup company in Greenland that say
that they have the purest of ice that you can possibly get.
Black ice, they call it.
It's where you go, it's where you go.
(laughing)
- It sounds like it's got grits in it.
- The purest ice possible, black ice.
- I know, it's a Greenland situation again, it's a prank.
It melts slower, apparently.
- Oh yeah. - It's part of the marketing I read.
And they say it's quite environmentally friendly.
Is there a pitch?
- Oh yeah, 'cause it doesn't sound like it.
- Not many people have the pitch.
This is clearly the worst thing we could be doing.
We're gonna sail our diesel boat out to a...
- Well, here's the thing, Greenland has to import a lot of stuff
by boat, by diesel boat, right?
So you're sending in full boats, but you're leaving with nothing.
So they're saying at least you're leaving with ice.
And so we're making money off of that.
So they're saying at least these boats
are making the return journey full.
- But the ice thing, they have that in Sweden as well.
I mean, the ice bar in Stockholm,
they have a whole thing about where the ice has come from
and ice mining.
- Yeah, I've had the water from ice bugs in Iceland.
In fact, like they sold it in the air pot.
- You only feed your cat a melted ice bag water, don't you?
- It's environmentally friendly though, so that's good.
You leave my cat out of this.
- We've heard icicles from our blocked gutters this week.
- As you move, you've been selling them too.
- Thank you, here you go.
- Badly turner.
- Sally Phillips is gutter water.
- Sally Phillips is gutter ice.
I think it's something you've been selling.
- 'Cause like the delivered roof drivers
go into your house with a pizza.
You might as well leave with something, right?
- Exactly, exactly.
- So Greenland has a great history of explorers.
There's a guy who I obsessed with who was called Peter Freikin
and he did a lot of early exploration with the Inuit.
He was Icelandic and so he would go over there
and he lived there and he married someone from there,
had two kids there.
And he's quite notable because of a story
that he wrote about in his book where he was caught in a storm.
There was a bit of an avalanche of where he was sleeping
and he had to get out of the burrow he was in
using Poo Knife, right?
- Poo Knife.
- Yeah, now this has been debunked.
- That is not possible, that's the idea.
- It is a pig when you have to tell me.
- Yeah, the idea is Sally what it sounds like.
Sally, I'm afraid to say.
- Why do you need a knife?
- So he's stuck in sight.
- Oh, it's not exactly what it sounds like then.
(laughing)
- It's like a fish knife.
Yeah, slightly different shape to better serve it.
- It's so embarrassing when you accidentally use
a Poo Knife to eat your mellad.
(laughing)
- So it's to get Poo out of animals.
- No, so he's stuck underneath the snow.
It's really hard packed, he couldn't get out.
So he had this idea, what if I poo,
and then what if I let it freeze,
and then what if I then use it as a knife,
as a tool, as an instrument to get out of here?
And so that's the story that he wrote down in his book.
And it's been questioned by certain members
of this podcast and the general scientific community.
(laughing)
And they've shown in recreations
that you couldn't possibly do that.
However, I looked into his story.
- I loved that there was a recreation.
- Yeah.
- I wanted to make a movie of the recreation.
- It was like 127 hours, it's really exciting.
Well, that's the thing.
When you read the whole story,
you realize this surely can't be a lie.
Surely this man did it because he was in this hole,
he was sleeping that night while this storm was raging
on the head of a bear that he had killed a few days ago.
- This can't be untrue, right?
And then, as he was trying to get out
after having made his poo knife,
his beard got wet from all of the exertion he was giving.
It got really sweaty, and it went on the rails of his sled
and got stuck to it.
So he had to rip the beard off his face
in order to get out as well.
So this is a guy using a cut, why didn't he pull a razor?
(laughing)
- Is it early 3D printer?
- Okay, it is time for fact number two, and that is James.
- Okay, my fact this week is that Miriam Webster
has a collection of cards of all words
in the English language spelled backwards.
- It's fantastic.
- Oh, wow.
Interesting. - Interesting.
- Well, that's the question, isn't it?
Why would you need it?
- Yeah.
- You guys have researched it, right?
- You had a theory done when James first told us
this headline fact, and I liked it so much.
- Oh, was it for ambulances?
- For ambulances.
(laughing)
- They've got it backwards, so yeah.
And we never really fleshed out the theory in that.
To clarify exactly how it was useful to know.
- No, so this is according to Miriam Webster,
they have these things.
And what it is is if someone sends you a query
about how many words are there ending phobia?
Or what are the only three words in English that end G-R-Y?
- Yes.
- So people would send these questions to them.
So there's quite a famous sort of puzzle,
which is there are three words in English language
ending in G-R-Y, hungry and angry.
- Two of them.
- Yeah, you got me two.
- What is the third word?
- Hungry.
- Hungry was not in the English language.
It might be soon.
In actual fact, it's a trick.
So it begins, there are three words in the English language.
And the trick is that the answer is the third word is language
in the English language.
- Oh, yes, yes.
- So that was the, when you're kids,
that's the kind of trick they do, right?
In actual fact, there are other words.
- Language doesn't end G-R-Y, I've got very confused.
- I know, I know.
It's like a school child.
- Sorry.
- Riddle, but there is a word and hungry,
used by Shakespeare, which I guess means not hungry,
as in Correlayness.
He, O-E-D also has Magri, Pugri and Iguri.
- Oh, no, no, no.
- Okay, no, no.
- Not that common.
- What do any of those mean?
- Magri means in spite of, Pugri is a type of Indian scarf
and Iguri is an Egyptian word meaning "curry up".
- Yeah, Magri, that's French, isn't it?
Meaning in spite of.
- Of course.
- Oh, there you go.
- No fake echoes of school.
- It feels like it comes from there.
So, they would get these questions every single week
and they would need to be able to answer them.
And so, they came up with these 315,000 slips of paper
with backward words and they're in 129 boxes.
And they're still there in the basement of Million Webster.
- Do you know what I quite like?
There would be a few words that you'd go,
ah, they got that wrong.
Like wolf, for example, which is actually flow backwards, right?
- Oh, I see.
So, I believe this is in the wrong box.
- Exactly, so these are called anodromes
and it's an anodrome is where the word is another word backwards
and we've got over 900 of those,
supposedly in the English language.
So, you would constantly come across
like those ones.
- Like that is not.
- Yes.
- Evil and live.
- Is another example, yes.
- Marion Webster, by the way,
is basically the American dictionary, isn't it?
- Yeah.
- Yes, it's the biggie.
I don't know.
Obviously, I'm an OED guy, you know?
Well, I email Susie Dent and ask her if we have the same thing
at the OED and she chat with her colleagues
and said that they don't have it.
She said it was a nice idea, but these days,
'cause we have digital dictionaries
and now AI can find all these things in a few seconds,
they're probably not gonna start it now.
- Shame.
'Cause it's good for rhyming as well.
Rhyming dictionaries.
- I look at them all the time when they're online.
Yeah, I do, a lot.
When I'm writing, yeah, I do.
- Marion Webster, by the way, so founded by Webster Brothers,
but Noah Webster being the biggest character of that group
and the one who really did most of the work on it,
fascinating life.
He was a huge impact in America.
He's sort of silently a founding father
that doesn't really get mentioned much.
For example, Alexander Hamilton
and him worked closely on the Federalist paper
and he was in New York City because of Hamilton,
but he doesn't appear as far as I can tell in that story
or maybe he does.
- I don't know.
- But he would have been useful for all the rhymes
in the rap.
- That's what I thought, like this guy's,
this guy probably taught this guy to rap.
(laughing)
- That these cards were the work of another guy
called Philip Babcock Gove,
who worked on the third Webster's dictionary.
And he was quite controversial
because he wanted to put slang in the dictionary
and until then you didn't really have slang in dictionaries.
And he basically listed almost all the populist werewords
apart from the really, really strongest ones.
- It was controversial.
And the whole point about dictionaries
is they're describing the way languages used
rather than what you want to be in the dictionary
or what the appropriate.
- Are they more prescriptive or descriptive dictionaries?
- Yeah, these days they're descriptive.
- But they used to be prescriptive.
- Exactly, yeah.
And I was reading about the life of a lexicographer
and what it's like.
You know how senior you are as a lexicographer
depending on what words you're working on.
So... - Wow.
- As you get more senior and more practice.
- Get longer words. - No.
- Short words. - Short words.
- Really hard ones to do. - Really hard ones to do.
- Are small words which can have many meanings.
- It's easy to know what a zylophone is.
- Right. - But what does "as" mean?
- Precisely. - So there's a lexicographer
called Corey Stamper.
- Yeah, no, oh. - You know what?
Yes, we can go shatter.
(laughing)
There's someone, there's a lexicographer
called Emily Brewster, who found a new meaning for the word "ah."
And that was a big deal.
(laughing)
Do you know what it was? - I do.
So it's when you're using "a" to mean a function word
before a proper noun to show that a condition
is new or unusual.
I'm gonna explain what I mean.
So after the recording was over,
a furious Schreiber challenged Harkin, right?
Now what that would be is to show that Dan is not normally
furious.
A furious Schreiber, it's using it in that sense
to show that a condition is new or unusual.
- Right, yeah. - That is a huge sense of the word "a."
Wow. - I know.
And that's a--
- Well, it's not a new sense.
It's a new writing down of a sense.
- What's a new meaning?
- I think that's always been used, right?
- Take it up with Emily Brewster.
- That's always been used.
She's just classified it. - She's nailed it.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
- But run in 2013 and OED lexicographer
did the word run and it took him nine months.
- Yeah, it's just how it would have taken to do walk.
- Yeah.
(laughing)
- With that, that's, yeah, the word God, for example,
Miriam Webster had to revise that for a different
and on a bridge version of their dictionary.
And the person, I think it was Corey Stamper, what's her name?
- She spent four months talking to everyone
about what that word could possibly mean.
She also did the word take, which took her a month.
And she said it's so annoying because no one's ever
gonna really read it.
So it's just there, it's the, yeah.
- That's true because when you look in a dictionary,
you wanna look up a word in the dictionary.
Usually it's a word that you've never heard of.
You don't really want to know all the different meanings
of the word, ah, do you?
- I have to read people, right?
As reading dictionaries every day, have you?
- Well, I've read the, the OED.
Yeah, we used to do it for QI all the time.
Like when those a new letter came up on QI,
it would be someone's job off and Andy, actually,
you would go through them the first of the last.
Right, down I'll do the dictionary.
- That's quite a play, isn't it?
I've read the dictionary.
The Bible.
- It's quite fun to read the shorter letters,
like your J's and your K's.
They're a bit shorter in the dictionary.
And you know, how tricky a series of QI was gonna be
by how short it was because there's almost nothing
that begins with J, it's quite a,
because it's a late letter to join the alphabet.
So you think, oh, gonna have a rough time here.
Get to O, easy, easy.
- Well, you're one of those people currently working on X.
I can tell.
- Down I got out in time not to do X.
- Yeah.
- One thing dictionaries do a lot of these days
is posting a word online.
And you know, and this is the thing that Susie
doesn't does a bit of as well.
It's sort of posting a word.
- Like Susie will do a word that's to do with
what's happening in the news or what.
- Yeah, like Wobble Gadget is a useless bastard
who's the president.
Or it's like, it's some subtle reference like that.
- Yeah.
- And it's, but this is basically,
I think Samuel Johnson is the first to do it.
- Really?
- Yeah, because there are a few jokes in Johnson's dictionary.
And Johnson didn't write the first dictionary
by quite a long stretch,
but he would put in jokes like oats,
a grain which in England is generally given to horses,
but in Scotland supports the people.
- And I think he had like lexicographer,
a harmless trudge or something like that.
- Exactly.
- Yeah, right.
- But it is basically him having little jokes
all the way through his dictionary.
- Well no, a Webster did that.
So the word cat was defined as the domestic cat
needs no description.
It is a deceitful animal and when enraged,
extremely spiteful.
- Wow.
- Is that a joke or was that a pissed off?
He was, he was quite a homogenly character.
So it might, that might be genuine anger.
It's weird that they would just slip that in.
They would break all the rules.
Their own rules that they were setting
for this extraordinary tone.
- Yeah.
- Just release a bit of anger.
- Takes long time to write dictionaries.
- Yeah.
- The OED was published in 1928 and it was accepted.
Well, they came up with the idea 70 years earlier.
So it took 70 years, but the brothers Grimm,
they started the German dictionary in 1838
and it wasn't fully finished until 1961.
- Didn't know that they wrote the dictionary.
- They were linguists.
- Yeah.
- And before, well, they were,
like they didn't really write fairy tales,
they just collected them from places.
- Yes.
- And the Swedish Academy dictionary,
that began in 1786 and the final word was put in in 2023.
- No, it's very cool.
- How many words are there in the English language language?
- I thought.
- Well, there's 315,000 cards
that are in the backward library.
- 315.
- It kind of depends how you count it.
I mean, I know there's a cup out answer, but.
- Yeah, yeah, but I, the announced version of that version.
- Interesting.
- Can I tell you one more thing about the OED?
- No, we've had enough.
- All right.
- I'm sorry.
- No, tell us what it is.
- Just that the OED has a vault of not yet words.
- Wow.
- That's it.
- And these are words that have been,
I don't think it's actually kept in a,
like a basement, but it's basically where they keep words
that have been pitched, but not quite been accepted yet.
- Okay.
- And some of these words, I think arguably,
you can argue at the top.
- Like Riz.
- Riz is a perfect example.
Is that in wide enough usage yet to qualify
as a pinned down entry?
- What does Riz mean?
- Ah, you don't know.
- Yeah, charisma.
- And charisma.
- Oh, man.
- If it's classic, basically, you know.
- Oh, yeah.
- Someone's got Riz.
(laughing)
- But entries 15 years ago in the OED vault,
Dringle, which was the watermark left on wood
by a glass of liquid, which is useful,
but I've never heard anyone use Dringle.
- Okay.
- Fergill to feel in a pocket for a small object.
Just Fergling.
- That just sounds like sex pressures to me.
(laughing)
- What's it, what are they doing, you're on it?
- Fergling is down the park.
- Yeah, what's his face from?
He's send us in a lay-by.
(laughing)
(upbeat music)
- Okay, it is time for fact number three.
That is my fact.
My fact this week is that if you ever saw a passenger
on British airways sitting with a vodka tonic
and wearing sunglasses, they were most likely dead.
- This is a piece that came out anecdotally
from air attendants who were reporting what you do
if someone dies while the plane is mid-flight.
A lot of the things would be to just cover them up
in their seat, move them to a seat in first class,
or in this case, as reported by British airways,
you would put some sunglasses on them,
pop a drink down in front of them.
- And also a copy of the Daily Mail,
and I don't know how to do that.
- A copy of the Daily Mail, yeah.
(laughing)
- Really?
- 'Cause nothing makes you not want to talk to someone.
(laughing)
- I'm sitting there with a copy of the Daily Mail.
- And nothing sucks your will to live like reading it,
so that is kind of perfect, yeah?
- I wonder if they count that in their circulation figures.
- Yeah, the same thing with newspapers
is that they bulk out their circulation figures
by giving a load of them to airlines,
and say, oh, you know, thousands of people read them,
but actually they've just given them way for a month.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
(laughing)
- Define read, yeah.
- It's a bit classless of them to call it circulation.
Given how tasteless that is, but yeah, yeah.
But this is, I think this is completely reasonable,
because the alternative is to have people
carrying bodies through the cabin, me a flight.
Like, I don't think that's very sensible.
But the article you sent, it said,
we don't do that anymore.
- Yes, exactly.
- We don't do that anymore.
And what really made me laugh in that article
is that the trainer was saying to the students,
you cannot put a dead passenger in the toilet.
It's not respectful.
And it's not strapped in for landing.
(laughing)
- And there were cases of bodies getting rigor mortis,
and they couldn't get them out of the toilet.
- Wow, yes, okay, I can.
- Just psychologically though, Andy,
if you're sat on a plane next to someone who's just died,
the last thing I want is them coming over
and popping some sunglasses.
- Getting the free-volctorate.
- Yeah, it's outrageous.
- It's been the whole trip going,
are you, are you reading that?
Can I, I think it's okay.
- Do you, you would happily just continue your own flight
sitting next to a dead person.
- What is my alternative?
- Move seats or get them?
- They move seats.
- They go in the stewardess sleeping area though.
- Well, this is the bumping up to first class thing.
I mean, the trick, the thing you really want to do
is you want to die for five minutes.
Get moved up to first class.
You want to recover, and then, yes.
- I mean, they'll be back, you know?
- They're fuckers in first class.
So you try, I mean, I'm not first class,
but I remember being in business class with a baby
and it looks you get with a baby.
Imagine, they wouldn't accept a dead person.
- There are some of my lines are trying to ban babies
in first class now.
I read this in the news this week.
Yeah.
- Right.
- Yeah.
- I don't know what's red.
- But like, for instance,
like if you fly EasyJet or I and I,
which is why I would mostly fly,
there is no first class.
There's no business class.
And all the seats are bucked up.
- Yes.
- So where do you put them?
- That's true.
- Well, Singapore Airlines supposedly had a corpse
cupboard that you would put them into.
- It must have been used for other things engaged, Ellie.
- Yeah.
- People's suits that need had a hanging out.
- Again, I think it's completely reasonable.
Supposedly Virgin will clear four seats in economy
and like lie the person down over that.
But this is a thing that of course happens
because if you've ever been on a long haul flight,
you've probably been sharing it with someone who's died
and is being repatriated.
It's just a thing you have to do.
- But they'll be underneath.
- They'll be in the hole.
I don't know about the hole,
but they won't be in the cabin with the rest
of the passengers, obviously.
But there was a case, only a few weeks ago,
there was an 89 year old passenger.
She with her family, you know, her younger family,
boarded an EasyJet flight at Malaga,
but she boarded while dead.
And basically the family had brought her along,
put her in the seat and then said,
oh no, she's died on board.
- I think there's still controversy about whether she,
like they're still saying that she died on board.
- If they were still saying she was just tired,
but I don't think a lot of people noticed that.
- Why did they do it?
- The theory is that it was very expensive.
- It's very expensive to repatriate.
- Yes, okay.
- If you repatriate someone,
it'll cost between 2,000 and 4,000,
which is like somewhere between business
and fast classes, isn't it?
It's quite expensive.
- Quite fascinated by the flight simulator community.
- Oh yeah.
- There's like, I mean, it's a 98% male.
- Yes, I did perk them a bit too heavily,
I don't know.
- So six, you can get your own cockpit in your lounge.
- I love it.
- There is almost exactly,
I mean, it is almost indistinguishable
from the real thing.
- Wow.
- But anyway, through that, I found there was a,
this was a real pilot.
His first job from flight simulating
was to then flying real planes,
flying dead bodies across America
to where they were going to be buried.
And his first flight, nobody told him
that cadavers grown at altitude.
- Do they?
- Who they are?
- Apparently so, yeah.
- Pressure change.
- Yeah, there's air with a lot.
- Cadavers have air in their lungs when you go higher
and that air comes out, which means they grow.
- That's astonishing.
- With totally terrifying.
(laughing)
- But to be honest, I make that noise
when I'm reading the Daily Mail anyway, so.
(laughing)
- Has there ever been,
I really hope that has been a case of someone
who's just been flying, who is an enthusiast
who has their own flight simulator
and they've had to do the announcement.
Is there someone on board who can fly a plane?
- That's probably everyone's fantasy, fantasy situation.
I don't know, I did go looking for it.
I couldn't find one.
I found that about 27% of the flight simulation community
have or have had a pilot's license at some point.
- Okay, okay.
- There's quite a significant amount.
- 73%, you don't.
- But there's also a gay and lesbian
and trans quite active flight sim community.
- Okay, okay.
- Simming, and they talk about really enjoying sightseeing
and they'll go and all fly together
like across the Massai Mara.
- Oh, like that.
- Because there's great, great.
- Because you're all doing the same simulation at the same time.
- At the same time.
- And when you're in the simulation,
you can see the actual animals
because there's drones and things like that.
- I mean, I used to play a bit of flight simulator.
- You surprised me not at all.
(all laughing)
- You're dad, Sally.
- My dad worked for British Airways.
- Yeah, that's quite cool.
So you had a...
- When it was glamorous then.
- It was glamorous.
- When are we talking?
- Then he started working for them in the '60s.
- Cool.
- I've not really engaged with that.
I've just been very selfish
and I asked my father about my straights job.
But I did this morning because it was...
- I said, "Can you tell me any stories about people dying?"
And he said, "No."
I can't.
I said, "What kind of stories have you got?"
- And he has lots of stories about heroic stewardesses.
So I grew up, I wanted to be a stewardess
'cause they struck me as fantastically glamorous.
- Yeah.
- There was a story,
remember being told, I don't know if it's true or not,
about star bomb a stewardess who rescued a flight
because the plane took off, I can't remember where from,
and the toilets have a cap on for the...
Anyway, this cap was not on the toilets.
So when the plane took off,
she went to the toilet before the lights went on
for the passengers to be able to use it.
- Yeah, perks of the job.
- And of perks of the job.
And it sucked her in.
And so she was then keeping the pressure.
But that blue bleach is very, very acid and corrosive.
And so it tattooed a star shape on her.
And obviously they landed quite quickly afterwards,
but she's like the little boy with a thumb in the dark.
- Wow.
- Yes, stewardess with the bottom in the toilet.
- What a story for that tattoo, it's so off of the plane.
Why do you have that tattoo?
- I was just drunk in Cambodia, yeah, yeah, this is like...
- We have all these sort of stewardess heroine stories
like I have a dolly on a plane.
Stewardess coming up saying, Mr. Ali,
you need to use your seatbelt.
And him saying, "Superman don't need no seatbelt."
And her saying, "Superman don't need no plane, Mr. Ali."
- Oh, nice.
- Thank you.
- Lovely.
- You know, I'm quite scared of flying
and I thought I was getting over it
and you've now added a new fear.
It's the idea of if that seatbelt sign goes on
that I'm gonna get my ass sucked down through the toilet.
Can I give you another one, Dan?
- Yeah.
- This is my favorite BA flight ever.
- Okay.
- And this is recently, in fact, been featured on QI.
So this is very, so this was the flight in 1982.
- So that you went to let her reuse facts?
- While I'm going to.
- To watch me.
- Wow.
If I had a nickel for every time I'd heard about the poo knife,
all right?
(laughing)
- One of the most exciting BA flights ever is
the one where they flew into an ash cloud by mistake.
The flying over Indonesia.
- Yeah.
- And the plane sensors were fit to look for moisture
in the air.
If you're flying into a big storm,
the plane sensors are looking for moisture.
The ash from this volcanic eruption was dry, right?
So all the ash landed inside the engine,
melted, then solidified inside.
So the all four engines stopped working.
And the captain, Eric Moody, 41 years old at the time,
made the famous, now quite famous announcement.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is your captain speaking.
We have a small problem.
All four engines have stopped.
We are doing our downers to get them going again.
I trust you are not in too much distress.
- Incredible, right?
- Do you know one of the reasons that flights
was all right and everyone on board survived?
- Why?
- He had recently been on the simulator
(laughing)
and done a simulation of a four engine failure.
- Wow.
- They had to restart the engines.
What they had to do, they had to wait for the engines
to cool down enough for the ash to break off
and then they could restart them.
But it took a long time and they were trying to glide
to the ground and he had to do it.
The ash had smashed up the windscreen
and made it impossible to see through.
So he had to land by being told the readings
on the instruments and how close you are to the ground.
Very cautious.
Anyway, he very sadly died in 2024,
but just before that, he was on Q1.
- Yeah.
- If you look up the cliff of Q1,
it's from, I can't remember what later it is,
that's the beauty, there we go.
And he was on there for understatement
for his lovely announcement.
And it's a really cool moment on that show.
- That's incredible.
- Wow, that is cool.
I bet they've got the visuals for that on Microsoft Flight.
- Yeah.
- I bet they do.
I bet they do now.
People will be desperate for that.
- Because they do ice on your windscreens.
- You're really on flight simulator?
- Yeah, lovely.
- Yeah depending on it.
- They've upgraded it.
- They've got me.
- So excited.
- You need to get a backup.
- I can't wait.
- It's a mere six grand, so I'll date your copies.
- You don't have to change my lounge as well.
- Do you guys remember that documentary about the fire festival
that went horrible wrong?
One of the characters that just add to the chaos of it all
is a pilot who takes all of them around in a flight.
And he'd never flown before, purely on flight simulator.
Was this thing?
- Do you listen to Black Box Down?
- No.
- It's a podcast.
- It's a podcast about plane crashes.
It's ended now, sadly, but every episode
they did a different flight incident.
- Well, what happened to it?
How did it die?
- Both hosts fell asleep very badly.
- My wife is a pilot.
A helicopter pilot.
And she's obsessed with plane crashes.
And I think that is, if you are a pilot,
you do want to read about all the crashes
'cause it kind of helps you know about what might happen.
- You want to read about it?
'Cause it always is something so tiny
that you might want to notice.
So you just, yeah, you want to get those all moments.
And the things that can't go wrong
are so strange and different.
But the point of that is that flying is incredibly safe.
And the point about it is that you're trying to say here.
Is it safe?
- But that is true that every time something goes wrong,
the airline and aviation industry
is unbelievably good at absorbing the stakes,
learning from them and implementing them for next time.
- It tries to be not so much like,
I'm not gonna tell anyone what happened
'cause I'll get in trouble 'cause I think they have a community
of like, we will try and be as open as possible
to stop it from happening again.
- Yeah.
Can I tell you something culturally
that British Airways gave us?
- Sure.
- Thanks to British Airways that basically
that we have the Beastie Boys.
- Beastie Boys?
So you'll know Nicelyt or Brooklyn?
Fight for your right party.
- We know the Beastie Boys.
We know the Beastie Boys.
- We do the next 50 minutes in an Aussie accent.
- How's your Aussie accent?
- Terrible.
- It's always been horrific.
- So we should say you grew up in Sydney for a bit.
- Well, yeah, it's just a couple of years.
- Yeah, I was too.
But you had an Aussie accent?
- I had an Aussie accent.
I was desperate to fit in.
But I wasn't aware of it.
I had an Aussie accent then I couldn't ditch it.
- So what did you have before you had?
Because you were born and born?
- I had it.
I spoke like a presenter from the World Service circa 1950.
- Okay.
- Until I went to Australia and then started speaking like an Australian.
And then couldn't get rid of it for ages.
And then when I started acting, it was a one accent I couldn't do for a very, very long time.
- Oh, really?
- Yeah, because I couldn't hear it.
- That's interesting.
- But did you see the story that it was the most attractive accent to Americans?
- I can believe it.
- Sexiest?
- Yeah.
- Smartest, most appealing.
I guess it's the least threatening accent is next.
Everything goes up at the end.
- Yes.
- And if you're throwing in sexy phrases like fair shake of the sauce bottle.
- Yeah.
- Was that being drunk?
- No, that's just giving someone a fair crack at something.
Kevin Rudd, who was PM from Australia.
- He used the phrase fair shake of the sauce bottle so much during the 2013 election
that it became a bit of a thing.
He was trying to be bloke in.
He also said fair suck of the pineapple.
You've got to give people a fair suck of the pineapple, you know?
- Yeah.
- Just these are wonderful phrases.
I remember flying into Perth to do a film and they had a government sponsored billboard
on the way from the airport saying, "Don't be a bloody idiot.
Don't drink and drive."
I said, "Government."
- Yeah.
- Well, they're very good at that.
- Very good at swearing.
Very good at swearing.
Very good at being just a bit loose as high up as Prime Minister.
- Yeah.
- Can I ask Andy this, the fact about they like it if you use Australian slang.
- Use their language.
- Yeah.
- And it just found that using Australian slang is a pro, but only in an Aussie accent.
- So Australians like Australians?
- Yeah, it sounds that way.
- So people, Australians like people who speak with an Australian accent.
And then they like them additionally if they are able to a bit relaxed and use something.
Because they, it's very, I remember hearing one, which was, "I'm so hungry I could eat the
arse out of a low-flying pigeon."
- No, that's kind of great.
- And again, was that Prime Minister who said that on?
- Yeah.
- And that's a sexy phrase that an American would find unbelievably attractive, you know?
I'm as full as a stripper's dance card.
- Oh yeah.
- It's a nice one.
But I'm not using an Aussie accent, so this doesn't endear me to any of our Aussie listeners.
- No, it sounds like you're patronising.
- Which I do not.
- It sounds like you're taking the piss out of yourself.
- If you look at his face.
- I'm very dear to you.
- Yeah, absolutely not.
- One person who pretended to have a Australian accent was Matthew McConaughey.
- Did he?
- Yeah.
- The actor?
- But when he was acting or just pretended to be Australian on a train?
- Well, he lived in Australia for a little while.
And then when he came back to America he decided to keep the accent because all Americans find the Australian accent sexy.
And the only real reason I bring it up is because Matthew McConaughey has a brother called Rooster who has two children.
One of them is called Margarita and the other one is called Miller Light.
- Okay.
- Miller Light.
- Miller Light McConaughey.
- Is that a beer?
- It's a beer.
And his brother got a lifetime supply of Miller Light when he named his child Miller Light McConaughey.
- Wow.
- Isn't that amazing?
- That is amazing.
- Soft topic, but I love it.
- A lot of these Australian phrases sound rude and I find this very interesting, but not all of them are.
So I just like one of the following phrases I'm going to read out is rude, okay? To point the bone at someone.
To bore it up, someone.
On the vage.
To asshole.
Dogging.
Stiff in the lizards.
Golden donut.
And to come the raw prawn.
Okay.
Only one of those is rude.
- Which one?
- The golden donut I'm going to go for.
- Okay.
- It's gone for the golden donut.
- Surely dogging means the same as it does here.
- Could do.
Could not.
- The raw prawn.
What's that one?
- To come the raw prawn?
- It's not.
- You're not in a good place if you're coming the raw prawn.
James is right.
- Is that the golden donut?
- The golden donut is like for the vagina.
To come the raw prawn is simply to put something over on someone, to fool someone.
Don't come the raw prawn with me.
And you said dogging, Sally?
- Yeah.
- Just dingo hunting.
- To point the bone at someone is to put a jinx on them.
To bore it up someone is just to give them a walloping.
On the vage means according to the provisions of the vagrancy act.
Okay.
To us whole is to dismiss someone preemptorially.
And stiffen the lizards as an exclamation of surprise.
- Very clear.
- It's down the cries and stiffen the lizards.
- Yeah.
- You know the Aussie salute?
- Can I ask that?
- It's not rude.
It's just waving away flies.
- Oh yeah.
- Well that's the, there's an old theory.
I think we've covered this on fish where that's how the modern Aussie accent developed.
Because there were so many flies that the way you would talk to each other was with your teeth closed
so that you wouldn't get any in your mouth.
And that's where the Aussie accent came from.
- Oh yeah.
- Yeah.
- And actually where it came from is a load of people came over from Britain in 200 years ago.
And it's quite similar to the Cockney accent around that time.
But also loads of people went to Australia at the same time.
Most of them were cockneys but there were people from other places.
And then over the years like the kids would hang out together
and they had to sort of understand what each other was saying
because actually accents were quite intelligible back in those days.
And eventually after one or two generations it's called leveling.
All the kids start talking the same way. And then all the adults, well they grow up and then many kids do.
- Yeah right.
- This kind of evolution isn't it?
- Yeah kind of but it's like a forced evolution and it's quite a quick evolution.
- With them, it's not to do Australia but with gendered speech patterns.
Remember reading this study, I mean again a long time ago, but it says probably been more complex thought about it since.
But that male children and female children had the same speech patterns until they went to nursery.
And then they started declaring themselves with their speech patterns.
- Yeah.
- Which is kind of interesting.
And so women like me, ape male speech patterns to seem intelligent.
Which is sort of wrong, isn't it?
And I didn't realise I did this until I read the study but you know have a slightly lower voice
and I sort of aping male speech patterns.
- Really? And it has been found that men and women if you make your voice lower
you are more successful on average in life.
- Really?
- And that's what they did to Margaret, that's just it.
- Yeah, there is no such thing as society.
There are individual men and women and there are families.
- Yeah.
- She didn't speak like that before.
- No.
- So Erin.
- That was her podcast, wasn't it?
- No, she didn't.
- We have children who are three and a bit older.
Have your kids started talking like Bluey, the cartoon character from Australia.
- Oh.
- And there is a lot of every now and then you see articles in the newspapers of saying
all our kids have started talking like Bluey now.
Similarly about 10 years ago everyone's kids were talking like Pingu or like the Teletubbies.
- Or Peppa Pig.
- Yeah.
- Yes, I mean, no.
- No.
- But what people are finding that their kids are using Aussie slang, especially in America.
So they'll say rubbish instead of garbage or whatever.
- Are you on the veg?
That kind of thing.
It's the golden donut for me.
- But actually according to linguists, kids very early, like certainly by the time they're
three years old, can tell the difference between the way that a character is speaking and
the way that their family and friends speak.
So if they are talking a little bit like Bluey or Pingu or Teletubbies or Peppa Pig,
they're doing it knowing that that's a character.
I think it's a register rather than the way they're speaking forever now, because otherwise just
all British children would speak in American.
There's so much American media consumed that you would just absolutely.
- That's why there's such a push to have home, grey and children's programming.
- Right.
- That's a, you know, political thing.
- Yeah.
- In all different countries.
- I think the idea of this kind of turn of phrase from Australia, the international grab
onto it, really comes down to, in my opinion, one generation of Aussies that moved over here.
And that's Barry Humphreys, that's Germaine Greer, it's Clive James.
And then I'm going to add Paul Hogan into that as well.
Because I think Paul Hogan more than anyone really turned Australia into a tourist destination
through the advert campaign with put a shrimp on the barbie, which is a phrase that's still used
to this day, even though in Australia it's called prawns, right?
So it was Americanifying the term that we would use in Australia.
But I was really about Paul Hogan because I didn't really know his story.
So Paul Hogan is Crocodile Dundee for those who don't know his real name.
He used to work on the Sydney Harbor Bridge.
He was a rigor on the Sydney Harbor Bridge while it was being constructed.
And the reason he became famous is there was a show in Australia called New Faces.
And he decided, yeah, he decided he was going to enter.
So he did as a tap dancing knife thrower.
Now he neither knew how to tap dance or throw knives.
Were they poo knives?
No, no, no.
Because I would watch that and pretend it's got talent.
Someone threw poo knives in Southern California.
Yeah.
He basically created, he's got a knife.
That's a lot of knife.
Give me one second.
Yeah, he faked it.
He did the audition and they said, let us see the act.
And he said, it's a pretty dangerous act.
I'll have to do it on the night.
But roughly this is what I'll be doing.
And they went, that sounds great.
Come on.
And so he made it to main TV, which was live at the time.
And that was his first break.
Did he do it?
No.
He didn't know how to do any of it.
Well, happened.
He threw the knives at the ground.
He made fun of the judges.
And this Aussie, which came out of him, because he became a big comedian in Australia.
And were you there then?
Do you remember that?
No, no, no.
I know.
You must see how much younger I was.
I don't think I was even born at that point.
No.
Yeah.
Just one more thing about slang in general.
So we mentioned earlier that people don't like sometimes being a dictionary.
So there was a survey in 2014.
And more than half of people said it wasn't appropriate for words like "yolo" to be in the dictionary.
Right?
But I just love this.
This was I think a Yuga thing.
In order to survey people's knowledge of slang terms.
They had to ask them, do you know what this slang term means?
And they had to come up with alternatives of what these words might mean.
OK.
So "yolo", 9% of people surveyed thought it was a yoghurt made with caramel and chocolate.
Cray, 15% thought it was having a strong or unpleasant smell of fish.
Brilliant.
Great fish, nothing.
And it's crazy.
We should say for...
Yeah, absolutely.
When it doesn't know that.
Man's Plane, as Dan just did, about the meaning of Cray.
28% thought that was a man who was especially played.
Man's Plane still describes me.
And finally, I loved this one.
3% of people thought the Bank of Mum and Dad is a place where Siemens is kept in cold storage for use in artificial insemination.
This was multi-guess, right?
They gave them options.
They gave them two options.
So 97% got the Bank of Mum and Dad right.
But 3% thought it was the old sperm free.
But it was the witty people who wrote the thing.
Yeah, I know.
Just lovely.
Isn't that great?
Do you know what the slang term to swallow a dick means?
Not any more, this was 18th century.
A 19th century.
Is it Aussie or just General?
It's British actually.
You've asked this before.
It relates to something else we've said today.
Be Dad on a plane.
The other one.
Mary and Webster, the dictionary.
Yeah.
It's all a dictionary.
It's all the English.
It's someone who knows lots of long words.
Or uses lots of long words.
They've swallowed the dick.
Do you have a favourite Aussie ism?
Australian actors, they say happy to be here, easy to work with.
So when things get really bad, you say happy to be here, easy to work with.
You don't complain about anything.
Yeah, too easy mate.
I think the mentality is completely fantastic.
Yeah.
And that's what I was thinking last year when I was ever thinking this is actually the best place.
You know, when the whole world looks like it's going tits up and there's so much sort of fear and threat of war.
Australia is such a positive place.
Like it's having such a moment of fashion and film and it's a nice safe place to be.
I would say that that generally speaking is true.
But you want to try mispronouncing some of their place names on the popular podcast.
I am.
They suddenly that easygoing attitude just disappears.
Okay, that is it.
That is all of our facts.
Thank you so much for listening.
If you'd like to get in contact with any of us about the things that we have said over the course of this show,
we can all be found on our online accounts.
I'm on @Streiberland on Instagram James.
My Instagram is no such thing as James Harkin.
Andy?
Mine is Andrew Hunter Ebb.
And Sally, you're on Instagram, right?
I think I'm Sally smack.
Yes.
Because I was once in a show.
They had the word smack in the title rather than because I take smack.
Or like being smacked.
I should change that.
I don't know.
Never change.
Well, listen, if you want to get through to us about any of the things that we've said,
we're also available on podcast@ky.com.
You can send us all of your Australian pronunciation complaints to Andy there.
We'll bring them up most likely in an episode of Drop Us Align.
That's our secret show that you can only get access to if you are a member of Club Fish.
This is a very exciting group of people who love our show so much that they are willing
to go behind a paywall to experience extra goodies.
And we've got so much great stuff there from bonus episodes all the way through to a quarterly quiz.
So if you want to be part of that, just go to patreon.com/nosuchthingasaffish.
Check it out.
Otherwise, just come back here next week because we're going to be back with another episode.
We will see you then.
Goodbye.
[MUSIC]
[BLANK_AUDIO]